Take your Bibles, please, and turn to Isaiah, chapter nine, Isaiah, chapter nine, and verse six, you may have received a little outline if you'd like to follow that tonight.
Isaiah nine is our text, and we're gonna go back 700 years before the birth of our Lord and study one of the prophecies about Jesus Christ coming.
One of the reasons that I believe the Bible to be the inerrant, infallible Word of God,
is because of all of the prophecies that were made and then fulfilled.
And you think about it.
Jesus even prophesied His own death, barrel, and resurrection.
And I'm amazed when you consider all of the evidences that we find concerning who Jesus is and what He has accomplished for us.
And so let's stand together.
Some folks are still coming in.
If you need a nursery tonight, ushers, be sure to help folks with that.
We have some great nursery service out across the way.
We're not gonna be long tonight, but you're welcome to take advantage of that also.
Isaiah is our text tonight.
Isaiah chapter nine and verse number six.
And we're going to read this verse, an amazing prophecy concerning the coming of Jesus Christ.
And familiar to us, but let's follow it tonight.
and let's learn what we can from Isaiah chapter 9 verses 6 and 7.
For unto us a child is born unto us a son is given and the government shall be upon his shoulder and his name shall be called wonderful counselor the mighty God the everlasting father the prince of peace of the increase of his government and peace
there shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it, and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth, even forever, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this."
Let's pray together.
Lord, thank you for this special evening, and Father, we pray that as we hear one more song, and then as we look to this scripture, that you would touch every heart tonight, Lord,
and that we would be mindful of who you are and why you came, that we would see the purpose in this season, and that we would receive the message, most of all is my prayer, in Jesus' name, amen.
You may be seated.
Well, it seems every family has a little bit of a different Christmas schedule.
How many of you will open presence tonight?
Let me say, how many of you are wanting this sermon to go fast because you're opening presence tonight?
Let me see where you are.
All right, I used to criticize people who opened presents on Christmas Eve, but our family opened them yesterday, so everyone does it a little differently.
We've got our sons go to the in-laws on Christmas, so we got to grab Christmas while we can.
And how many of you are traditional Sunday morning, or Christmas morning rather, open up the presents?
Let me see where you are, all right?
Good, wonderful.
And how many of you are Baja Humbug?
You're not even known.
We don't want to go there tonight.
But it's such a blessing to get together and to be able to give and perhaps receive and then to rejoice over what has been given to us.
And it was a lot of fun for us yesterday for a couple of different reasons, but one of the things that I enjoy about getting with our family for a few hours is just kind of
listening to the children and seeing how they're growing and what they're learning.
And I was reading the Christmas story yesterday morning to our grandchildren.
And one of them, after I talked about Jesus, the Savior of the world, raised up her hand and said,
When can I get saved?
And she's getting real close, you know, she wants to be saved and understanding the gospel and getting ready.
And what a blessing.
Another blessing was just being around our brand new born grandbaby, little Quinn here.
She's such a blessing and so quiet all during the day.
So unlike her father, Larry, I'm telling you, it's amazing, but just enjoy being around the children.
And when we think of
Christmas, we think of children, but most of all we think of a very special baby that was born 2000 years ago, the little baby, the Lord Jesus Christ.
And it's very easy in the midst of this season to kind of rush past what took place in Bethlehem 2000 years ago.
Heard of a young family that was heading off on a trip for Christmas and the car was packed
They had stopped the mail, stopped the newspaper delivering.
They had a neighbor to keep an eye on the house and feed the dog.
They had gifts for their parents, their grandparents, their aunts, their uncles, everything loaded in the car.
They had plenty of antifreeze.
They had their suitcases all loaded.
They were in the driveway ready to pull out of the driveway when suddenly the wife said, honey, we forgot the baby.
Now, some of you have done that, I'm afraid.
And it's easy to do, but it should not be that way when it comes to the baby, the Lord Jesus Christ.
And oftentimes we get the packages, we map out everything on GPS, we have the schedule, we have the plan, but we forget the baby.
And we forget the reason that brings us together tonight.
And so I want to speak to you for a few moments about this baby, the Lord Jesus Christ.
I want you to think about him from Isaiah nine and six, this amazing prophecy that we read a moment ago.
And the first thing I want you to think with me about tonight is the nature of this baby, the nature of this baby.
The Bible says in verse number six, for unto us a child is born.
Let's say that together.
For unto us a child is born.
Now the phrase a child is born speaks of Jesus in carnation.
the fact that he became fully human.
A child is born.
The Bible says in 1 Timothy chapter three and verse 16, and without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness.
God was manifest in the flesh.
Now we've read that verse before, haven't we?
But let's just say that little phrase together, shall we?
God was manifest in the flesh.
So the nature of this child,
is given to us in the phrase, God was manifest in the flesh.
God became man.
Jesus, the baby in the manger, was 100% man and 100% God.
As man, he never sinned.
As God, he could not sin.
I once read years ago, and I don't know why, but I think it was about the eighth grade.
I was reading about Henry David Thoreau.
and the great American poet and how he had gone one day into a pond and he got down to where the water came up covering about half of his eyes and he said, because he wanted to see the world like a frog saw the world.
And I thought to myself, that is one of the weirdest things I've ever heard of anybody ever doing in their life.
And he wrote some great poetry, but I don't know that you'd have to do that to really write a poem about a frog, but that's exactly what he did.
He wanted to see what it might be like to be a frog.
Well, Jesus Christ did not take on the form of man merely to see what it was like, but he literally wanted to identify with our sinful human race in order that he might redeem us with the blood
that He would shed.
The Bible tells us that He came for that very purpose, Galatians 4-5, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons.
And so we see this phrase, a child is born, and we begin to sense the nature of Jesus Christ, that this reveals His humanity
But also we read in this verse this phrase which says, a son is given.
Notice that in verse six, for unto us a child is born unto us a son is given.
Now the term child is born refers to his humanity, but the term a son is given is a reference to his deity.
Colossians chapter two and verse nine says, for in him,
dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily.
So the Son that was given was the Son of God, and in Him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily.
This is the cornerstone of the Christian faith that Jesus Christ, born of the Virgin, placed into the manger, was not just another man.
but that he was fully the son of God.
He was deity wrapped in humanity.
The Bible says in Romans chapter 1 and verse 3, concerning his son Jesus Christ our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh, and declared to be the son of God with power according to the spirit of holiness by the resurrection from the dead.
So he was given glory, glory to God in the highest.
He was given praise when he was born, but he also upon the time of his resurrection was revered as the son of God with power.
And so we see in this passage, just an introduction to the nature of Jesus, who is Jesus Christ?
I think the most important question a man could ever ask while living on planet Earth,
Who is Jesus Christ?
Because if he was the Son of God, then our entire eternal existence is dependent upon what he did.
And if he was not, then it is the biggest farce that could have ever been told the story of Jesus Christ.
Thank God, because he is fully God and fully man, we have hope and we have peace tonight.
So we see a child is born and a son is given.
This is the nature of the baby.
and we're thankful tonight to worship Jesus Christ as our Lord, as the very Son of God.
But I want you to see something else in this verse tonight.
I want you to notice, secondly, the nobility of the baby.
Now sometimes we get interested in nobility and some of you may be watching a little bit of the royal family right now and you have, it seems like a little bit of a division between the brothers and Prince Harry, he's spending his Christmas in Canada away from the family and we kind of like to watch and read about the royals and what's going on and this type of thing.
But what about the nobility of the baby Jesus?
What does the Bible tell us?
Notice it says here in this verse, and the government shall be upon his shoulder.
Now what an amazing leap from the manger to the throne, from a manger to the throne.
This child born also as a son and his kingdom will come one day from the father.
Now listen to what the Bible says about Jesus in Philippians 2.9, it says, where for God also have highly exalted Him and given Him a name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.
Now think of that, the Bible says that every tongue one day will confess
that Jesus Christ, the baby that is born in the manger, is Lord, the supreme ruler of the universe.
Now think about the nobility then of Jesus.
We see it in a few ways.
First of all, the expansion of his government.
The Bible says in verse number seven, of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end.
Now many have tried this wickedly so.
to control the entire world.
And yet they have failed.
And yet of Jesus, it is said that of His government, there shall be no end.
His kingdom will have no limits of expansion or peace.
We also see the eternality of His government.
For the Bible says in verse 7,
There shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it and to establish it with justice from henceforth, even forever."
Luke chapter 1 and verse 33 says, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever and of his kingdom, there shall be no end.
Revelation 11, 15.
And the seventh angel sounded, and there were great voices in heaven saying, the kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord and his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever.
How many of you love the hallelujah chorus?
I love the hallelujah chorus.
And our choir sang it a few weeks ago.
Oh, so wonderful to hear the hallelujah chorus.
And we like to stand in reverence to the Lord when we hear that song.
And our favorite line is, and he shall reign
forever and ever and ever and ever and I find great comfort in that because we have seen kingdoms rise and fall and we have seen leaders come and go and we see in the news about all of these different things that happen in our world today and we're told that we might receive a Christmas present from North Korea and I like our president's nickname for the president there rocket man don't you
and people are wondering, what's he gonna do?
And there's always these different kinds of kingdoms and all these different kinds of worries and threats, and yet there is coming a day when Jesus Christ will establish his kingdom.
And of his kingdom, there will be no end, it will be expansive, it will be universal, and he will rule, just like the song says, forever and ever and ever, amen?
And this is the promise that we have that one day Jesus Christ, who came the first time in the fullness of time, one day He will come the second time.
And we at that time will be with Him as His children, as joint heirs with Jesus Christ.
And He will rule forever and ever.
And keep that in your heart and mind.
I'm proud to be an American.
I love America.
I love the red, white and blue.
Often times can become emotional thinking of the sacrifices men have made and women have made for our country.
But I've got to tell you something.
I have a citizenship that is not of this world.
It is a heavenly citizenship.
And I'm looking for my king, the Lord Jesus Christ.
You say, well, why are you looking for him?
Because he said so clearly in John chapter 14, I go to prepare a place for you.
And if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again that where I am, there you may be also.
Hey, one day we're going to be in a kingdom with the Lord Jesus Christ.
It's an eternal kingdom.
And if you have accepted Christ as your Savior, then you can have that promise that you're gonna be in an eternal kingdom, a forever kingdom, the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ.
And of his government, there shall be no end.
Jesus Christ will serve no for your terms.
He will rule forever and ever and ever.
So we see in Isaiah 9, 6, the nature of this baby,
And we see, secondly, the nobility of this baby that he will become the king to whom every one of us will bow.
But notice, finally, tonight the name of this baby.
Now, I like names, and it's interesting to me to watch young couples, and I guess we did it too, you know?
Everything's weird when a young couple does it now, but when you were doing it, it was normal, right?
It's interesting to watch a young couple going though through the name process today, because
There's a lot of different computer search engines and books and baby name books and things.
And every once in a while, someone will come up with a name that is newer and you search out the meaning.
And we were told for nine months that our youngest son, Matthew, was gonna be a girl.
Boy, were we surprised when he was a boy.
And so he got named right there at the hospital, Matthew, gift from God.
Names, they have a meaning, don't they?
and we search them out and we pray about a name that would be fitting.
Well, let's think about the names of Jesus.
There's so many wonderful names of Jesus, but several of them are found right in this verse.
Notice what it says in verse six.
His name shall be called, what's the first word there?
Wonderful.
Job nine and verse 10, which doeth great things past finding out
Yay and wonders without number.
Jesus Christ is wonderful.
We used to sing a song when I was a teenager growing up.
Isn't he wonderful, wonderful, wonderful?
Isn't Jesus my Lord, wonderful?
Eyes have seen, ears have heard, it's recorded in God's word.
And he is wonderful.
Everything about him is wonderful.
His attributes are amazing.
He's all-knowing.
He's omnipresent.
The fact that Jesus Christ created the world and sustains the world.
He is wonderful.
He is awesome.
And sometimes we see children at Christmas getting excited about maybe a Lego set from Star Wars or maybe some game that they're going to play and how awesome this superstar is and awesome this superstar is.
And yesterday afternoon,
Our daughter Danielle, I said, hey, find a nice Christmas show for the kids.
And so she found one that said something, had something about some story and in the story was Santa Claus.
And so they are watching it for about five or six minutes.
It was Santa Claus as in claws, as in a monster.
And I know my daughter's getting a little bit older, but I said, sweetheart, that is not a good movie.
And by the way, we found a wonderful movie called Star.
It's an animated film of all places produced last year by Sony and rather biblical.
And I would highly recommend it if you have young children.
I sat there and watched a cartoon yesterday afternoon with my grandchildren.
It was wonderful.
to see the Lord presented in that way in a way that the children enjoyed so much.
But everything about the Lord is wonderful and His name is wonderful.
And what a blessing that we serve a perfect Savior.
You know, I've seen people bow and pray to statues of Buddha, but when you look closely, the statues are cracked and sometimes they're tilted.
And I've seen people literally, and you have too on the news,
give their very lives for their profit, and yet their profit is so far from perfect.
And yet you and I tonight get to sing and give and worship a wonderful savior.
Isn't that a blessing?
That he is perfect in all of his attributes.
He is perfect in every way.
And so the name of Jesus, he's wonderful.
Notice the next word it says, his name shall be called wonderful.
What's the next word say?
Counselor.
counselor.
You know, every one of us need counsel.
We need good counsel.
And there's no greater counsel than you can receive than the counsel from the Lord Jesus.
No one is God's counselor, but he is the omniscient source of wisdom.
He is the counselor
Romans 11 and verse 33, oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God.
How unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out for who hath known the mind of the Lord or who hath been his counselor?
You know, he didn't have to search Google to figure out how to create stars.
And he didn't have to read a manual to figure out how to develop and build and create the Rocky Mountains.
He didn't have to try to figure out and get counsel when it came to creating Adam.
How many of you are thankful tonight that we serve a God who can give counsel in every way.
His counsel is perfect and he's recorded it for us in his word.
He is wonderful.
He is counselor.
Notice the next name now.
The next name says this, that he is the mighty God.
Let's say that together.
Now many religions of the world today deny this truth.
And folks, if we're going to be followers of Christ, then I would submit to you tonight that doctrine actually matters.
What we believe really does matter.
And we believe that Jesus Christ is the mighty God.
You say, well, there are some people that came by my house and they passed out some brochures and they said that Jesus was the son, but he wasn't equal to the father.
You know, folks, you say, pastor, why do you believe that Jesus is God in the flesh?
Because the Bible says he's God in the flesh.
He is the mighty God.
And we think about this name.
This is a title.
that is given to our God, Revelation 1 and 7.
Behold, he come with clouds, and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him, and all the kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him, even so, amen."
This speaks of his second coming.
I am the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending saith the Lord, which is
and which was and which is to come the Almighty.
We serve a God that is mighty.
He lives in the past, present and future.
He's the Alpha and the Omega.
He is the mighty God.
and we worship a God that has all power.
Jesus said, all power is given to me.
Go ye therefore and teach all nations.
And what a great truth that is tonight to know that when we pray, we're not praying to some weak old man up in heaven with a long beard and a rocking chair.
We are praying to the mighty creator of the universe.
He is mighty God.
And I don't know what your burden is tonight, but I know this, even at Christmastime, people have burdens.
In our mind might get off the burdens when we look into the face of a child or open a gift, but every one of us tonight have some burdens that are hard to carry.
And I just want to tell you something tonight that you can cast your cares upon the Lord because he cares for you.
And he's stronger than you and he can bear those burdens.
He is a mighty God.
And then notice the next one says of this baby that he is the everlasting father, the everlasting father.
What an amazing phrase or name to give to a baby.
Jesus came to do the will of his father and he and the father are one.
In fact, Jesus taught this.
He said, I and my father are one, John 14, nine.
Jesus sayeth unto him, have I been so long time with you and yet you have not known me Philip?
He that have sent me the father is the father and how then say is show us the father.
Hebrews one and verse three, who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person.
The story is told,
of December 1903 after many, many attempts.
Finally, the Wright brothers
had just a little bit of flight.
They had, in fact, the first flight of their flying machine that got off the ground, and they were thrilled, and they telegraphed a message to their sister, Catherine, and they said, we have actually flown 120 feet.
We will be home for Christmas.
And Catherine ran to the newspaper editor, and she said, you've got to have this story.
And here was the story.
The boys will be home for Christmas.
She had totally missed the small part about the first flight of man.
Folks, whatever you do this Christmas, don't miss the significance of who Jesus is.
He is wonderful.
He is counselor.
He is mighty God.
He is the everlasting Father, and then notice this finally.
He is the Prince of Peace, the Prince of Peace.
Our God is the peacemaker
and the peace giver.
The Son, Jesus, is the visible King who has promised to come through David's seed and to sit upon David's throne in kingdom, then shall peace rule the earth.
The only time true peace is on the earth is when Jesus Christ comes and presents himself as King of Kings and Lord of Lords.
During the first Advent,
In Luke chapter 2 and verse 14, the Bible pronounced glory to God in the highest on earth peace.
Good will toward men.
But at his second coming, he will subdue Satan.
He will bring peace to this earth.
He will provide peace.
And the Bible even says that
There will be even amongst the animal kingdom peace on earth when Jesus Christ comes the second time.
Romans 16 and 20, and the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
And so tonight, just take a moment to ponder and think about the baby.
Think about the nature of the baby.
Fully man, fully God.
Think about the nobility of this baby.
that of his government, there shall be no end.
And think about the names of this baby, wonderful.
Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, and the prince of peace.
Ronald Reagan once spoke these words about Jesus.
Think of a young man whose father is a carpenter
He grows up working in his father's shop.
He has no formal education.
He owns no property of any kind.
One day he puts down his tools and walks out of his father's shop.
He starts preaching on street corners in a nearby countryside and walking from place to place, preaching all the while.
Even though he is in no way and ordained minister, he never gets farther than in the area, perhaps 100 miles wide at most.
He does this for three years.
Then he is arrested, tried, and convicted.
There is no court of appeal, so he is executed at the age of 33, along with two common thieves.
Those in charge of his execution rolled the dice to see who would get his clothing.
The only possessions he had, his family cannot afford a burial place, so he is in turn, in turn in a borrowed tomb.
End of story?
No.
This uneducated, propertyless young man who preached on street corners for only three years, who left no written word, has for 2,000 years had a greater effect on the entire world than all the rulers, kings and emperors, all the conquerors, the generals and admirals, all the scholars, scientists and philosophers who ever lived all put together.
How do we explain that unless he really was who he said he was?
wonderful counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, and the Prince of Peace.
There is no way to explain the phenomenon, the works, the miracles, the majesty, the hundreds of millions of followers of Jesus except to know that he is God come down in the flesh.
And it's one thing to see how he has changed other people's lives.
to see the many hospitals that have been raised up in his name, to see the universities raised up in his name.
It's one thing historically to look and to see the impact of Jesus as Ronald Reagan did, but it's another thing to have your life impacted by Jesus Christ.
Because the Bible says, the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.
And when someone receives his gift,
When someone by faith accepts Jesus Christ as their savior, the Bible says, if any man is in Christ, he's a new creature.
Old things are passed away.
Behold, all things have become new.
Now listen to that phrase, in Christ.
Are you in Christ tonight?
Is he in you?
Have you received Christ as your savior?
Now, did you know that you can be in a Baptist church and not be in Christ?
You can be in a religion and not be in Christ.
The Bible says, therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature.
Old things pass away, behold, all things become new.
It's one thing to study the names of Jesus.
It's another thing to receive the nature of Jesus yourself.
to receive Him as your Savior and to become a new creation.
And that's the gift that He brought to us.
That gift wrapped in swaddling clothes 2,000 years ago.
That one, to whom the shepherds bowed and to whom the wise men gave.
He is still wonderful.
He is still counsel or He is still mighty God.
He is still the everlasting Father.
And He can still bring peace to your heart.
If you have never received Christ as Savior, I would encourage you to do that even tonight.